---
title: "About me"
date: 2020-02-12T15:37:00-05:00
---

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;My first introduction to programming was actually
through wanting to keep in touch with my friends when I moved abroad in 2009,
at the start of seventh grade. One of my friend group's favorite activities was
playing MMO games together, but unfortunately many of the games we played were
region locked to North America. Must to my dismay, I soon found out that I
could no longer just hop online and start playing with my friends after moving
to Saudi Arabia, instead I was just greeted with an access denied message. I
couldn't believe that I had just lost everything I built with my friends over
the years, and there was no way to get it back or ever recreate it. But, I
couldn't take no for an answer. Instead of going the more simple route and
trying to do location masking through VPNs, I came across the idea of a
'private server' for the game. Through just downloading a C++ project and
setting up the proper port forwarding, I could rebuild everything I lost with
the power of an administrator. And not only that, but I could have all of my
friends join too and we could all play together again. While we soon found out
that having a private server defeats the purpose of an MMO game, I loved the
idea of being able to use software to build almost anything I wanted.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;With this foray into programming, I quickly
thought of how many of the things I enjoyed were all driven by software, from
the microwave heating my popcorn, to the video games I spent countless hours
on. I wanted to have a part in building all of these things that I love. So I
did, I constantly tinkered with things. I would try to download the source code
for classic programs, like a calculator, and just toy with the code and see
what I could make it do, how I could extend it or suit it to whatver I wanted. I took every software course I could in High School, and I knew exactly what kind of work I wanted to do in the world. When I started at the University of Virginia, Introduction to Programming was one of my favorite courses, and it felt amazing to be with so many others that also enjoyed programming.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;One of the main facets of programming that drew
me to the discipline was simply the flexibility of it. Through just a text
editor and modeling software, one could build a simulator that models the
entire universe. I wanted to know how it was possible from the bottom to the
top. Thus, the reasoning for my Electrical Engineering degree. I found my four
years at UVa fascinating, from learning of the lowest levels of circuitry,
simple resistors and capacitors, to how those are cascaded and connected to
create pipelined Central Processing Units that then enable programmers to
develop any software they could imagine. What finally brought me to my Software
Engineering career was the aforementioned flexibility, while I greatly enjoyed
learning how physical hardware can power the creations of today, I much prefer
the quick feedback and enablement that software development provides.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;From writing in languages that ranged from
Assembly to Python, I saw how each generation of programming languages
concentrated on improving the flexibility and power of programming. This idea
is what led me to Appian, a company whose sole focus is providing a development
platform that enables anyone with an idea to develop their own software, not
just programmers. I have worked at Appian for the last two years on their
backend infrastructure, helping to power this platform for hundereds of
customers across the world, both scalably and reliably. Much of my work
revolves around building out and increasing the usage of Appian's Kafka
clusters, and extending the functionality of our in-memory database management
service. Unforunately next to nothing in this world has 100% uptime, so part of
my job is also 24/7 on-call duties to remediate any issues in our own managed
infrastructure and any on-premise installations.
